layout: page
title: "Obsessions"
permalink: /obsessions

Talking was once referred to as performative art. Or rather, talking was once referred to as feeling *like* performative art. I don't think this strays very far from the truth in actuality when you consider how much of what we do is for the sake of keeping up appearances. 
What if we didn't, though? What if we always said what was on our minds? Instead of shifting to the nearest thing to distract. To bring away. To gain distance.
Art inevitably brings distance. "Life cannot be art, for if all life was art, how would we differentiate between the mud and the grass?" Ah, but why would mud have any less intrinsic goodness than the grass? In fact, how could you even earnestly claim mud is so very different from grass when that is exactly what grows out of it?
To me, beauty is everywhere, even when it's hidden. It's our constant problem to sift through the noise and come back to this as often as we can. Without it, I feel this encroaching darkness loom. Things don't necessarily feel right.
Of course cows can't eat mud the way they eat grass, but it's overall importance is all the same, and judgment brings us nowhere. The rush of connection, of being in on the conversation (as opposed to all those other times where you were *out*) can be a way to push the status quo, but it can doubly so press us for a reach of The Box.
Yes, The Box. Big and scary and scared and frail. This thing appears like nothing, but its significance brings us comfort. It brings us distance. To seal something away, like a witch doctor practicing magic, is nothing new. It's the foremost trait of mammalians. Fear of water.
When we state into the great blue sea we are frightened and terrified. We can never go back. But the pull is all the same. A describably weird sensation can draw and has drawn many to its clutches, but the majority rely on that same trait. They rely on a portait, and affixing the portrait in such a way to prove their distance, their growth, their betterness in lieu of swimming in the great blue sea.
Is talking a practice in repression? Politically-wise, you could go this route and say that soothing and redirecting is their main purpose. But first you need some type of real worry for your actual purpose (don't worry that doesn't matter). Now you take that real worry and talk a little bit about it, right before discussing the "big issue". Then you can redirect their emotional worry towards this new idea or problem. If they are unhappy blame something else. If they are proud, praise the state. Regardless, the drain of the emotional energy of the subject is always external both to themselves and the politician, hence distance is accrued, repression is formed (or maintained), and pictures are framed.
Why would we ever go back to that deep blue sea? We have gadgets and gizmos and wonders galore; rain drops on roses and whiskers on kittens. Oil to quench your thirst, and madeleines for your kids. There's nothing back there. We can only go forward. We can only build up.
